MI 349 Card Sorting Lab
Anna Malmquist, 10/25/2016
	For this assignment four card sorts were performed and the results and proposed site architecture are further delineated in this report below. For the first two card sorts, both were performed by me personally; the initial sort was done as a closed sort  where the categories were pre-defined and content sections were placed into those categories based on what makes sense from my perspective as the content creator and site designer. The second sort was done as an open sort from the perspective of my primary persona expanded on in previous weeks, and resulted in more variation of categories in name but with similar underlying themes as the first sort. For both the additional sorts involving outside participants, the resulting categories were similar with regards to portfolio content organization but diverged when it came to the placement of personal and contact information versus news and updates. In one sort the participant indicated personal and contact information should be on the home/main page with portfolio content and project related news as subsequent categories. In the second sort involving an outside participant the sorter indicated the ideal hierarchy of main categories should be as follows: all work related news and project updates on the home page, all portfolio works in a subsequent second category, and finally contact and personal bio information last.
	Possible  categories of organization which emerged as a result of these card sorts were a home page with a news feed, a portfolio section containing all personal work, and a contact information section which includes personal information and contact links. In a majority of these sorts the category with the primary bulk of the proposed site content was the portfolio section. Within this section the default state would be to display all portfolio work at once in chronological order and allow for tools to sort and limit subsequent search results according to the type of work (personal, commission, etc.),  the type of medium (traditional media, 3d modeling, photography, etc.),  and by individual projects. Regarding the home page, all updates about past, current, and future work  could be included in chronological order as an RSS-feed-like structure; in this way information about current work activities could be easily displayed to new and returning visitors. Finally the last category, Contact, would include personal and professional contact information as well as a small amount of personal background information. Based on the at times differing results from the card sorts the proposed site hierarchy would follow the previously described categories with only minor adjustments to page order needed.
